#summary TempSensor utility for Lascar EL-USB-RT

= Introduction =

Tempsensor utility is a small application which goal is just to show the current temperature and humidity readings from the Lascar EL-USB-RT usb sensor. The data can be further used in different applications by simply calling the application from different scripts.

== Requirements ==

 * An Lascar EL-USB-RT USB device
 * libusb-1.0 installed (see installation instructions how)

== Usage ==

Command line options;

||-s||Print only values, in format: temperature, humidity||
||-v||verbose printout||
||-h||Help||

If no command options are given the Tempsensor will printout temperature and humidity with text and unit symbols:

{{{
$ ./tempsensor 
Temperature: 24.5C, Humidity: 22%
$
}}}

=== Only values (-s) ===

If used from script and only the values is wanted, then the -s switch should be used. It will print both temperature and humidity without any other details. These will be printed out on one line and comma separated.

Example;
{{{
$ ./tempsensor -s
24.5,22
$
}}}

=== Verbose printout (-v) ===

The verbose printout, can be useful in troubleshooting situations, as it will give lot of state printouts. It works in both "-s" mode as in the normal.

Example;
{{{
$ ./tempsensor -v
TempSensor 0.1
Init sensor
USB Device ready
Read device
Data received:
Temperature
Data1: ffffffce
Data2: 08
Value: 24.4C
Release interface
Data received:
Humidity
Data1: 31
Value: 22%
Release interface
Temperature: 24.4C, Humidity: 22%
$
}}}

----
== Thanks ==

Jan Axelson (for the excellent libusb example)

----
== Notes ==

Lascar EL-USB-RT is a product of Lascar Electronics Ltd.

----
== Copyright ==

Copyright (C) 2013 Sebastian Sjoholm

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.